AWS day-1

aws provides various services under different categories: 200+

different categories are

1. Compute
2. Containers
3. Storage
4. Database
5. Migration & transfer
6. Networking & Content delivery
7. Developers Tools
8. Customer Enablement
9. Robotics
10. Blockchain
11. Satellite
12. Quantum Technologies
13. Mangememnt & governance
14. Media Services
15. Machine Learning
16. Analytics
17. Security Identification & Compaliance
18. Cloud financial management
19. Front end web and Mobile
20. Application Integration
21. Business Application
22. end user computing
23. Internet of thing 
24. Game development

Deployment models of cloud computing:
 cloud based
 on-premis
 hybrid

Benefits of cloud computing:
1.Trade u[front expense for variable expense
2.stop spending money to maintain dcs
3.stop guessing capacity
4.benefit from massive economy scale
5.increase speed and agility
6.Go global in minutes

EC2 is a popular service offered by aws its under the category of Compute.
EC2- Elastic compute cloud
EC2 instance types:
1.general purpose:
General purpose instances provide a balance of compute, memory, and networking resources. You can use them for a variety of workloads, such as:

application servers
gaming servers
backend servers for enterprise applications
small and medium databases
Suppose that you have an application in which the resource needs for compute, memory, and networking are roughly equivalent. You might consider running it on a general purpose instance because the application does not require optimization in any single resource area.
2.compute optimized:
Compute optimized instances are ideal for compute-bound applications that benefit from high-performance processors. Like general purpose instances, you can use compute optimized instances for workloads such as web, application, and gaming servers.
However, the difference is compute optimized applications are ideal for high-performance web servers, compute-intensive applications servers, and dedicated gaming servers. You can also use compute optimized instances for batch processing workloads that require processing many transactions in a single group.
3.memory optimized:
Memory optimized instances are designed to deliver fast performance for workloads that process large datasets in memory. In computing, memory is a temporary storage area. It holds all the data and instructions that a central processing unit (CPU) needs to be able to complete actions. Before a computer program or application is able to run, it is loaded from storage into memory. This preloading process gives the CPU direct access to the computer program.
Suppose that you have a workload that requires large amounts of data to be preloaded before running an application. This scenario might be a high-performance database or a workload that involves performing real-time processing of a large amount of unstructured data. In these types of use cases, consider using a memory optimized instance. Memory optimized instances enable you to run workloads with high memory needs and receive great performance.
4.accelarated computing instances:
Accelerated computing instances use hardware accelerators, or coprocessors, to perform some functions more efficiently than is possible in software running on CPUs. Examples of these functions include floating-point number calculations, graphics processing, and data pattern matching.
In computing, a hardware accelerator is a component that can expedite data processing. Accelerated computing instances are ideal for workloads such as graphics applications, game streaming, and application streaming.
5.storage optimized:
Storage optimized instances are designed for workloads that require high, sequential read and write access to large datasets on local storage. Examples of workloads suitable for storage optimized instances include distributed file systems, data warehousing applications, and high-frequency online transaction processing (OLTP) systems.
In computing, the term input/output operations per second (IOPS) is a metric that measures the performance of a storage device. It indicates how many different input or output operations a device can perform in one second. Storage optimized instances are designed to deliver tens of thousands of low-latency, random IOPS to applications. 
You can think of input operations as data put into a system, such as records entered into a database. An output operation is data generated by a server. An example of output might be the analytics performed on the records in a database. If you have an application that has a high IOPS requirement, a storage optimized instance can provide better performance over other instance types not optimized for this kind of use case.


EC2 Pricing:

On-Demand
–
On-Demand Instances are ideal for short-term, irregular workloads that cannot be interrupted. No upfront costs or minimum contracts apply. The instances run continuously until you stop them, and you pay for only the compute time you use.

Sample use cases for On-Demand Instances include developing and testing applications and running applications that have unpredictable usage patterns. On-Demand Instances are not recommended for workloads that last a year or longer because these workloads can experience greater cost savings using Reserved Instances.

Reserved Instances

Reserved Instances are a billing discount applied to the use of On-Demand Instances in your account. There are two available types of Reserved Instances:

Standard Reserved Instances
Convertible Reserved Instances
You can purchase Standard Reserved and Convertible Reserved Instances for a 1-year or 3-year term. You realize greater cost savings with the 3-year option. 



Standard Reserved Instances: This option is a good fit if you know the EC2 instance type and size you need for your steady-state applications and in which AWS Region you plan to run them. Reserved Instances require you to state the following qualifications:

Instance type and size: For example, m5.xlarge
Platform description (operating system): For example, Microsoft Windows Server or Red Hat Enterprise Linux
Tenancy: Default tenancy or dedicated tenancy
You have the option to specify an Availability Zone for your EC2 Reserved Instances. If you make this specification, you get EC2 capacity reservation. This ensures that your desired amount of EC2 instances will be available when you need them. 



Convertible Reserved Instances: If you need to run your EC2 instances in different Availability Zones or different instance types, then Convertible Reserved Instances might be right for you. Note: You trade in a deeper discount when you require flexibility to run your EC2 instances.



At the end of a Reserved Instance term, you can continue using the Amazon EC2 instance without interruption. However, you are charged On-Demand rates until you do one of the following:

Terminate the instance.
Purchase a new Reserved Instance that matches the instance attributes (instance family and size, Region, platform, and tenancy).

EC2 instance saving plan

AWS offers Savings Plans for a few compute services, including Amazon EC2. EC2 Instance Savings Plans reduce your EC2 instance costs when you make an hourly spend commitment to an instance family and Region for a 1-year or 3-year term. This term commitment results in savings of up to 72 percent compared to On-Demand rates. Any usage up to the commitment is charged at the discounted Savings Plans rate (for example, $10 per hour). Any usage beyond the commitment is charged at regular On-Demand rates.



The EC2 Instance Savings Plans are a good option if you need flexibility in your Amazon EC2 usage over the duration of the commitment term. You have the benefit of saving costs on running any EC2 instance within an EC2 instance family in a chosen Region (for example, M5 usage in N. Virginia) regardless of Availability Zone, instance size, OS, or tenancy. The savings with EC2 Instance Savings Plans are similar to the savings provided by Standard Reserved Instances.



Unlike Reserved Instances, however, you don't need to specify up front what EC2 instance type and size (for example, m5.xlarge), OS, and tenancy to get a discount. Further, you don't need to commit to a certain number of EC2 instances over a 1-year or 3-year term. Additionally, the EC2 Instance Savings Plans don't include an EC2 capacity reservation option.



Later in this course, you'll review AWS Cost Explorer, which you can use to visualize, understand, and manage your AWS costs and usage over time. If you're considering your options for Savings Plans, you can use AWS Cost Explorer to analyze your Amazon EC2 usage over the past 7, 30, or 60 days. AWS Cost Explorer also provides customized recommendations for Savings Plans. These recommendations estimate how much you could save on your monthly Amazon EC2 costs, based on previous Amazon EC2 usage and the hourly commitment amount in a 1-year or 3-year Savings Plan.

Spot Instances

Spot Instances are ideal for workloads with flexible start and end times, or that can withstand interruptions. Spot Instances use unused Amazon EC2 computing capacity and offer you cost savings at up to 90% off of On-Demand prices.

Suppose that you have a background processing job that can start and stop as needed (such as the data processing job for a customer survey). You want to start and stop the processing job without affecting the overall operations of your business. If you make a Spot request and Amazon EC2 capacity is available, your Spot Instance launches. However, if you make a Spot request and Amazon EC2 capacity is unavailable, the request is not successful until capacity becomes available. The unavailable capacity might delay the launch of your background processing job.

After you have launched a Spot Instance, if capacity is no longer available or demand for Spot Instances increases, your instance may be interrupted. This might not pose any issues for your background processing job. However, in the earlier example of developing and testing applications, you would most likely want to avoid unexpected interruptions. Therefore, choose a different EC2 instance type that is ideal for those tasks.

Dedicated Hosts:
Dedicated Hosts are physical servers with Amazon EC2 instance capacity that is fully dedicated to your use. 

